1. Before doing any other investigation, list two or three questions that this infographic
and explanation of methodology raise in your mind.

How can they determine that these results are only for people who have been broken up with?
Did some state have multiple comfort food and if they did how did they pick the ones for the article?	

2. Where can you find Google Trends search data? Provide the URL.

https://trends.google.com/trends/

3. The article concluded that “milkshakes take the crown as the ultimate breakup food,
topping the list in six states.” Pull up Google Trends data on Milkshake (beverage) and
change the date range to February 1, 2024 through February 28, 2025.

a) What is the highest peak recorded in the line chart for “Interest over time”?

100 in February 2-8 2025
	
b) What is the lowest dip recorded?

60 in December 22-28 2024

4. At the top next to the box for “Milkshake,” there is a plus sign to add another search
term. Click the plus sign to add a search for Hamburger (Food).

a) What is the highest peak recorded for searches using Hamburger? What is the
lowest dip?

Highest peak was 100 from May 26 - June 1 2024
Lowest dip was 17 from November 24 - 30 2024 

b) What happened to the line for Milkshake? What do the high and low look like now?

The milkshake line is under the hamburger line. The high and low parts are more closely related with a high peak of 28 and a low dip of 17

5. Why did the line for Milkshake change? Hint: Click on the icon next to “Interest
over time” for more information about how trend results are displayed.

The line for milkshake changed when i added hamburger was because hamburger was a more popular search term than milkshake in that time period.

6. Add a third term to your search, this time for Breakup (Topic).

a) Do you see any patterns that suggest a relationship between searches for Breakup
and Hamburger?

I don't no see any patterns that suggest a relationship.

b) How about between Breakup and Milkshake?

During February 18 - 24 2024 that is breakups peak at 29 and milkshake was a peak there of 25, as well as in June 16 -27 2024 breakup and milkshake peak are 1 apart, break up at 23 and milkshake at 22.

7. What does all of this suggest about the reliability of the conclusions reached in the
article?

It shows some reliability with the conclusions of the article but also there are many other factors that can make milkshake peak in popularity.

8. At the upper right of Google Trends, click on the link for “Back to Classic Explore.”
Notice that this view includes a section for “Compared breakdown by subregion.”

a) What was the top state by interest for Milkshake?

Illinois

b) What was the top state by interest for Hamburger?

South Dakota

9. Use the download icon to download a csv file with these search trend results. Save it
to your DataAnalytics/week-01 folder as GTrends_milkshake_hamburger_2024.csv
