1. Start by reviewing the data.gov home page. What is this?

You can find data and research to help develop websites and mobile application.

2. Go to Most Viewed Datasets. How many datasets are listed?

There are 402,382 data sets.

3. Find the Topic Category for Human Health. Review the range of data sources 
available for this topic. Why do you think these were tagged with the Human Health 
category?

These articles talk about food sources as well as water sources and in patient care. 

4. Go to the Food Price Outlook. Review the catalog page for this dataset. How can you 
navigate to additional datasets from the USDA?

In the metadata source section you click on the hyperlink to take you to all the data sets made by USDA.

5. Go back to the data.gov home page. This time, click on Datasets by Organization.



6. Try searching for your city, county, and state. What organizations are returned?

only 2 came up for my state California. State of California and OpenTopography are the two that returned.

7. Search for USDA, and click into the result. Within the USDA datasets, search for food 
composition. Notice that the top three results are all datasets concerning nutrition 
information. Try searching the USDA page for nutrition. How does that affect your 
results?

This affects my results by showing me specific data sets about nutrition as opposed to being more generally with the food composition.

a) One of the tricky things about working with data is that sometimes the terminology 
used by a data source is not obvious. You may need to dig around and be creative 
to find what you’re looking for.



8. Go back to the results for food composition, and click on FoodData Central. Review 
the catalog page for this data source, then click on the button for Visit Page. Take 
some time to explore the FoodData Central website.

a) Try searching for butter, or any of your favorite foods. What kind of results do you 
get? What happens when you click on a result?

It shows foods that have butter and foods that include my search term.

b) Go back to the home page. Find Foundation Foods, and click on Downloads. What 
kind of data can you find on this page? How big are these files? Where can you find
more information on the data types available?

The files are pretty big. You can scroll down and download them in a lot of formats like JSON and HTML